---
layout: post
title: golang GC
categories: golang
tags: [golang, gc]
date: 2018-05-16 21:00:00
description: golang gc 机制浅探
---

### golang GC 浅谈

Garbage collector (GC).

        The GC runs concurrently with mutator threads, is type accurate (aka precise), allows multiple GC thread to run in parallel. It is a concurrent mark and sweep that uses a write barrier.

golang 的 GC 和工作线程并行运行，*?类型准确？*，允许多个GC 线程并发运行, 通过 `write barrier` 实现并发的标记清除。

				It is non-generational and non-compacting. Allocation is done using size segregated per P allocation areas to minimize fragmentation while eliminating locks in the common case.

golang GC 不分代，不压缩。 golang 在分配内存的时候是预先将内存划分为固定大小的内存块，以尽量减少碎片，同时消除常见情况下的锁定。

				The algorithm decomposes into several steps.
				This is a high level description of the algorithm being used. For an overview of GC a good place to start is Richard Jones' gchandbook.org.

				The algorithm's intellectual heritage includes Dijkstra's on-the-fly algorithm, see
				Edsger W. Dijkstra, Leslie Lamport, A. J. Martin, C. S. Scholten, and E. F. M. Steffens. 1978.
				On-the-fly garbage collection: an exercise in cooperation. Commun. ACM 21, 11 (November 1978),
				966-975.
				For journal quality proofs that these steps are complete, correct, and terminate see
				Hudson, R., and Moss, J.E.B. Copying Garbage Collection without stopping the world.
				Concurrency and Computation: Practice and Experience 15(3-5), 2003.


				1. GC performs sweep termination.

				a. Stop the world. This causes all Ps to reach a GC safe-point.

				b. Sweep any unswept spans. There will only be unswept spans if this GC cycle was forced before the expected time.

				1. GC

				2. GC performs the "mark 1" sub-phase. In this sub-phase, Ps are
				allowed to locally cache parts of the work queue.

					 a. Prepare for the mark phase by setting gcphase to \_GCmark
					 (from \_GCoff), enabling the write barrier, enabling mutator
					 assists, and enqueueing root mark jobs. No objects may be
					 scanned until all Ps have enabled the write barrier, which is
					 accomplished using STW.

					 b. Start the world. From this point, GC work is done by mark
					 workers started by the scheduler and by assists performed as
					 part of allocation. The write barrier shades both the
					 overwritten pointer and the new pointer value for any pointer
					 writes (see mbarrier.go for details). Newly allocated objects
					 are immediately marked black.

					 c. GC performs root marking jobs. This includes scanning all
					 stacks, shading all globals, and shading any heap pointers in
					 off-heap runtime data structures. Scanning a stack stops a
					 goroutine, shades any pointers found on its stack, and then
					 resumes the goroutine.

					 d. GC drains the work queue of grey objects, scanning each grey
					 object to black and shading all pointers found in the object
					 (which in turn may add those pointers to the work queue).



`write barrier`: 写屏障
